JPacman Scenarios
(c) Arie van Deursen, Delft University of Technology
25 January 2011


1. Background

This document describes a series of JPacman user scenarios, 
following the format of behavior-driven development 
(see http://dannorth.net/whats-in-a-story/). 
Thus, each scenario is of the form:

Title (one line describing the story)
 
Narrative:
As a    [role]
I want  [feature]
So that [benefit]
 
Acceptance Criteria: (presented as Scenarios)
 
Scenario 1: Title
Given [context]
  And [some more context]...
When  [event]
Then  [outcome]
  And [another outcome]...
 
Scenario 2: ...



2. JPacman

JPacman 5 is a very simple JPacman derivative, to be used for
educational purposes. Essential features such as multiple levels and
multiple players, energizers and different ghost types are postponed
for later releases (and may be implemented by students as an
exercise).  Furthermore, to give the game a somewhat different flavor,
JPacman deviates from standard Pacman behavior in several ways.  This
document describes the requirements as a series of use cases, and
explains what the GUI should look like.

The JPacman game is played on a rectangular board.  A cell on the
board can be empty, or can contain the player itself, one of the
several ghosts, a piece of food, or a wall. Moveable sprites such as
the player and the ghosts can make single-step horizontal or vertical
moves.  Tunnels on the border make it possible to move from one border
to the opposite border.  When a player moves over a tile containing
food, the player earns points and the food disappears. If a player and
a ghost meet at the same cell, the player dies and the game is over.
The player wins the game once he or she has eaten all food.


3. User Stories

STORY 1 -- STARTUP:
As a player
 I want to start the game
so that I can actually play

Scenario S1.1: Start.
Given the user has launched the JPacman GUI;
When  the user presses the "Start" button;
Then  the game should start.



STORY 2 -- MOVE THE PLAYER:
As a player, 
 I want to move my Pacman arround on the board;
So that I can eat all food and win the game.

Scenario S2.1: The player moves.
Given the game has started,
  and my Pacman is next to an empty cell;
When  I press an arrow key towards that cell;
Then  my Pacman can move to that cell

Scenario S2.2: The player eats
Given the game has started,
  and my Pacman is next to a cell containing food;
When  I press an arrow key towards that cell;
Then  my Pacman can move to that cell,
  and I earn the points for that cell,
  and the food disappears from that cell.

Scenario S2.3: The player dies
Given the game has started,
  and my Pacman is next to a cell containing a ghost;
When  I press an arrow key towards that cell;
Then  my Pacman dies,
  and the game is over.
  
Scenario S2.4: The move fails
Given the game has started,
  and my Pacman is next to a cell containing a wall;
When  I press an arrow key towards that cell;
Then  the move is not conducted.

Scenario S2.5: Player wins, extends S2.2
When I have eaten the last food;
Then I win the game.


STORY 3 -- MOVE THE GHOST:
As a ghost;
 I get automatically moved around;
So that I can try to kill the player.

Scenario S3.1: A ghost moves.
Given the game has started,
  and a ghost is next to an empty cell;
When  a tick event occurs;
Then  the ghost can move to that cell.

Scenario S3.2: The ghost moves over food.
Given the game has started,
  and a ghost is next to a cell containing food;
When  a tick event occurs;
Then  the ghost can move to the food cell,
  and the food on that cell is not visible anymore.

Scenario S3.3: The ghost leaves a food cell.
Given a ghost is on a food cell (see S3.2);
When  a tick even occurs;
Then  the ghost can move to away from the food cell,
  and the food on that cell is is visible again.

Scenario S3.4: The player dies.
Given the game has started,
  and a ghost is next to a cell containing the player;
When  a tick event occurs;
Then  the ghost can move to the player,
  and the game is over.


STORY 4 -- SUSPEND THE GAME:
As a player,
 I want to be able to suspend the game;
So that I can pause and do something else.

Scenario S4.1: Suspend the game.
Given the game has started;
When  the player clicks the "Stop" button;
Then  all moves from ghosts and the player are suspended.

Scenario S4.2: Restart the game.
Given the game is suspended;
When  the player hits the "Start" button;
 Then the game is resumed.


STORY 5 -- EXIT THE GAME:
As a player,
 I want to be able to quit the game;
So that I can do something else.

Scenario S5.1: Exit the game
Given the game has started;
When  the player clicks the "Exit" button;
Then  the game is terminated.


STORY 6 -- RESTART THE GAME:
As a player,
 I want to be able to restart the game after winning or loosing;
So that I can enjoy another JPacman game.

Scenario S6.1: Restart the game.
Given the game is over (by winning or by getting killed);
When  I hit the "Start" button;
Then  a new JPacman game is started.


4. User Interface

The user interface for JPacman is relatively simple.  The game is
rectangular board, which can be read from a special text file with
simple character encoding. On the GUI, special (animated) images or
colored squares are used for the ghost, food, empty cells, and wall
cells on the board.  The direction of the last (attempted) move is
reflected in the image used for the player. The GUI furthermore
contains a "Start", "Exit", and "Suspend" button (at the bottom of the
GUI), as well as an indicator for the amount of food eaten and the
game's overall state (playing, game won, player died, ready to start
the play).  The state indicator field can also be used to display
helpful information on possible keys to press (e.g., press start, use
arrow keys).


5. Development Requirements

JPacman should be developed in Java. It should be set up so that it
can easily be used by (the latest versions of) standard (open source)
Java development tools, such as Eclipse, ant, maven, and JUnit. To
allow for working with maven, the maven standard directory structure
should be used.  Since the educational purposes include testing,
JPacman should be delivered with an extensive test suite.
